## Abhilasha Saroj
[Image](src)

## About
With an aspiration to nurture my curiosity, be a lifelong learner, understand the complex and dynamic field of transportation, and to serve the unmet needs of a more inclusive and happier humanity, I started pursuing Ph.D. at School of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology in 2016, advised by [Dr. Michael Hunter.](https://ce.gatech.edu/people/Faculty/811/overview)

My Ph.D. research entails two parts. First part focuses on the development of a connected corridor real-time data-driven traffic simulation model tool, capable of providing traffic and environmental performance measures of the corridor at a (near) real-time rate. This simulation tool can be used by research practitioners and transportation organizations to investigate environmental and traffic level impacts of advanced ITS/connected technologies on the corridor. At present, several cities across the world are studying the benefits of a Smart City Infrastructure. The simulation model developed is intended to be an effective tool in simulating and measuring environmental and traffic performance related benefits of different connected corridor technologies. The model simulates 2.3 miles of the North Avenue Smart Corridor in Atlanta, Georgia.Development of connected corridor real-time simulation model led to discovery of data gaps in the real-time raw data received from the study corridor. This motivated the second part of research to investigate the connected corridor real-time data loss characteristics to provide a suitable data imputation methodology. Time series patterns across the detectors on the corridor is studied to build a learning-based prediction model. With an interest to learn and investigate effectiveness of Machine Learning/Artificial Intelligence algorithms, I am testing performance of ML algorithm for prediction. 

I defended my dissertation proposal in October 2019, and I am expecting to graduate in May 2020. I am looking for a faculty/post-doc position starting Fall 2020.

